# Java CSFLE Example

## Steps

1. Clone this repository:
   ```
     git clone https://github.com/mongodb-university/csfle-guides.git
   ```
   Work from the repository directory for the remainder of these
   instructions.

2. Start a `mongod` instance (Enterprise version >= 4.2) running on port 27017
3. Set up your build environment for the Java (>= 1.8) project. The following
   build files are located in the project root:
   - `pom.xml` for [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/)
   - `build.gradle` for [Gradle](https://gradle.org/)

4. Make sure you have the `master-key.txt` file in the root of your
   execution environment. This is a 96-byte cryptographically-secure generated
   master encryption key required to run this example project. To generate your
   own master key or use a KMS, refer to the [CSFLE Use Case
   Guide](https://docs.mongodb.com/drivers/security/client-side-field-level-encryption-guide/).

   The settings for each supported KMS are included in
   `DataEncryptionKeyCreator.java` and `InsertDataWithEncryptedFields.java`.
   If you are using a cloud KMS provider, uncomment and assign your KMS
   provider settings. See
   [Use a KMS to Store the Master Key Guide](https://docs.mongodb.com/drivers/security/client-side-field-level-encryption-local-key-to-kms)
   for more information on how to set up a master key and data encryption
   key with on of the supported KMS providers.

5. Make sure the `mongocryptd` path is correct in the `CSFLEHelpers.java`
   class.

6. Run the `main` method in `DataEncryptionKeyCreator.java` to insert
   a new data key in the **encryption.__keyVault** collection. Copy the key id
   that is printed on the console.

7. Update the `keyId` variable in `InsertDataWithEncryptedFields.java`
   with the value from the previous step.
   ```java
   String keyId = ""; // paste the key generated by DataEncryptionKeyCreator here
   ```

8. Run the `main` method in `InsertDataWithEncryptedFields.java`. This
   executes the following:

   - Inserts (using upsert) a sample document with encrypted fields
   - Retrieves the sample document with a CSFLE-enabled client to view the
     decrypted fields.
   - Attempts to retrieve the sample document with a normal client on an
     encrypted field, and is unsuccessful.
   - Retrieves the sample document with a normal client on a normal
     field. The retrieved document contains encrypted fields that are not
     human-readable.

9. Update the code to insert a document with the regular client. What happens?
